AI-Driven Traffic Classification, Intelligent Load
Balancing, and Self-Healing Mechanisms in SDN
Dr. Nagaraja G S1 , Adarsh Adiga2
1,2

Department of Computer Science and Engineering, RV College of Engineering, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India
Email: nagarajags@rvce.edu.in, adarshadiga26@gmail.com

Abstract—Software-Defined Networking (SDN) decouples the
control plane from the physical forwarding plane, allowing
network flows to be managed centrally and programmatically.
However, legacy static routing algorithms are unable to maintain Quality of Service (QoS) constraints under heterogeneous
traffic. For example, real-time applications such as Voice over
IP (VoIP) and video streaming frequently share path resources
with bulk data transfers, causing link congestion and subsequent
packet drops. To address these limitations, this work presents
an intelligent SDN control plane architecture that integrates
automated traffic classification, dynamic path allocation, and
autonomous failure recovery. A flow-based classifier utilizing
a Random Forest model identifies traffic categories at the
ingress switch using statistical features such as packet sizes and
packet rates, bypassing payload inspection overhead. Forwarding
rules are computed dynamically based on these classes, routing
delay-sensitive media through low-latency paths and offloading
bulk transfers to secondary links. Link state transitions trigger
an immediate self-healing cycle, rerouting active flows within
milliseconds of a physical outage. Experimental evaluations in
Mininet controlled by a Ryu controller demonstrate that the
proposed framework minimizes packet loss and jitter during
link failures while optimizing aggregate throughput across the
topology.
Index Terms—Software Defined Networking (SDN), Machine
Learning, Random Forest, Quality of Service (QoS), Intelligent
Load Balancing, Self-Healing, Traffic Classification, OpenFlow.

I. I NTRODUCTION
Modern campus and enterprise networks are required to
handle a highly diverse mix of traffic with strict performance
constraints. While real-time applications like VoIP demand
minimal latency and low jitter, file transfers prioritize throughput. Traditional routing protocols, such as OSPF, rely on
static link metrics or shortest-path algorithms. These protocols are application-agnostic, resulting in uniform routing
of heterogeneous packets. This agnostic handling leads to
localized congestion and buffer overflows on primary paths,
while alternative redundant paths remain underutilized.
Traditionally, hardware-based routers have been tightly
coupled systems where the control and forwarding planes
are implemented on the same physical unit. This distributed
control plane architecture required network administrators to
manually configure individual nodes. Consequently, changes
in a large topology necessitated updating static configuration
files on every machine. Under transient traffic bursts, legacy
routers were unable to dynamically reroute around congested
links due to slow convergence and updates in routing metrics.
This static configuration resulted in unbalanced link utilization,

leaving redundant paths idle while primary links suffered from
congestion.
H3

H4
S2

Path A

H7

H1
S1

S4
H8

H2
Path B

S3
H5

H6

Fig. 1. The emulated 4-switch, 8-host diamond backbone topology. Path
A (S1 → S2 → S4 ) acts as the primary low-latency link, while Path B
(S1 → S3 → S4 ) serves as the secondary path.

Network engineers utilize queuing theory models to analyze
this congestion. In a single-server queue (M/M/1), packet
arrivals follow a Poisson distribution with rate λ, and the
switch interface transmits packets at an exponential service
rate µ. The average waiting time W in the queue buffer is
formulated as:
1
W =
(1)
µ−λ
As the arrival rate λ approaches the service capacity µ, the
average waiting time W increases exponentially, leading to
buffer overflows and packet drops. Because legacy routing
protocols lack real-time visibility into active flows, they cannot
monitor queue state transitions to proactively prevent packet
loss.
Software-Defined Networking (SDN) addresses these challenges by decoupling the control plane from the data plane.
The logically centralized controller maintains a global view of
the network topology (as illustrated in Fig. 1) and installs flow
rules dynamically using OpenFlow. Modern controllers utilize
OpenFlow 1.3, which supports multi-table pipelining and finegrained packet matching, allowing switches to process traffic
based on specific header combinations. However, typical SDN
deployments continue to rely on static forwarding policies
or simple transport-port matching. Since port numbers are
easily obfuscated and Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) introduces
significant processing latency at the controller, lightweight

flow-level classification mechanisms that run inline within the
control loop are required.
The proposed architecture integrates application-aware path
selection, automated failover, and Random Forest classification. The controller collects flow statistics, such as average
packet size and packet rate, to classify active streams. Prioritized traffic (voice and video) is carried on the primary link,
while bulk file transfers are sent through secondary paths. In
the event of a link failure, a self-healing protocol detects the
link-down event and automatically reinstalls alternative paths
to prevent session loss.
II. R ELATED W ORK
The integration of machine learning in software-defined architectures has been extensively investigated to enhance traffic
classification and routing. Adil and Alfoudi [1] investigated
Decision Trees and Support Vector Machines, proving that
statistical flow features can be used instead of port-based
flow identification in SDN traffic classification. Similarly,
Serag et al. [2] proposed a machine learning framework to
enhance QoS, demonstrating that predictive models reduce
queueing delay for high-priority packets by combining traffic prediction with dynamic queue mapping in OpenFlow
switches. Although deep neural networks can achieve high
classification accuracy, Nagpal et al. [3] cautioned that such
models introduce substantial computational overhead during
the flow setup phase, potentially creating bottlenecks in Ryubased controller configurations.
Further research in traffic identification has focused on
lightweight model structures. Elagin [15] developed a traffic classification model using artificial intelligence elements
to manage resources. Dmitrieva et al. [16] analyzed traffic
identification methods for resource management, noting that
flow statistics can successfully defeat port-masking techniques.
Nyaramneni et al. [17] evaluated advanced ensemble machine
learning models to predict SDN traffic, while Samaan and
Jeiad [18] proposed a machine learning pipeline using Spark
for online classification, verifying the feasibility of executing
model predictions inline.
Dynamic load balancing is another key area. Rostami and
Goli-Bidgoli [5] surveyed QoS-aware load distribution in IoT
networks, highlighting the challenges of managing heterogeneous traffic under strict resource constraints. In their survey
on AI-driven SDN load balancing, Alhilali and Montazerolghaem [6] reported that supervised learning models adapt more
effectively to topological changes compared to conventional
heuristic algorithms, providing more predictable path selection
during transient failures. Farahi [14] provided a comprehensive
overview of load balancing methods in SDNs, comparing
traditional heuristic and learning-based approaches.
Du et al. [7] addressed data center traffic balancing by
distributing workloads evenly across core switches to avoid
localized congestion. They investigated flow-splitting techniques that dynamic load distribution without introducing
packet reordering issues at the destination hosts. Ananth [8]
proposed a hybrid load balancer that estimates traffic volumes

using OpenFlow statistics and proactively updates routing
paths to prevent congestion, presenting metrics for matching
path capacity to incoming aggregate flows. Srinivasan et al. [9]
utilized Bayesian Optimization to maintain SLA requirements
in IoT environments, developing a probabilistic model that
adapts routing pathways based on uncertainty metrics.
Advanced optimization algorithms and reinforcement learning have also been explored. Casas-Velasco et al. [10] proposed DRSIR, a deep reinforcement learning routing algorithm
that computes paths based on topology-wide state variables.
Faezi and Shirmarz [11] surveyed machine learning applications across different SDN planes, detailing how classifiers
can be deployed. Tache et al. [12] analyzed optimization
algorithms for routing, load balancing, and delay in SDN,
while Wassie et al. [13] utilized deep learning for traffic
prediction to explain QoS behavior. Sun et al. [19] proposed
ScaleDRL for traffic engineering with pinning control to balance scalability and performance. Finally, Benedetto et al. [20]
studied semi-distributed traffic engineering for elastic flows. In
related computing fields, Maulana and Kusuma [4] evaluated
deep learning models for malware classification using system
call sequences, showing the general adaptability of sequential
learning under complex structures.
The proposed framework addresses these challenges by
implementing a lightweight Random Forest model. Compared
to deep learning models and legacy systems, this design
provides low classification latency and rapid path recalculation
under dynamic network conditions.
III. S YSTEM A RCHITECTURE
The proposed system features a three-tier architecture that
separates application logic, control policies, and physical forwarding devices. Fig. 2 illustrates this division.
Application Plane
Real-Time NOC Dashboard
Traffic Injection, Failure Simulation, Data Visualization
REST API / JSON
Shared State Sync

Control Plane
Ryu SDN Controller
Random Forest Classifier, Intelligent
Load Balancing, Self-Healing Module
OpenFlow 1.3 Protocol
(FlowMod, PacketIn)

Data Plane
Emulated Mininet Network
OpenFlow Switches (S1 − S4 )
& End-User Hosts (H1 − H8 )
Fig. 2. Three-Tier System Architecture of the AI-Driven SDN Framework.

A. Application Plane
The interactive NOC dashboard allows for real-time monitoring and control. Built with Streamlit, the application performs the following functions:
1) Traffic Injection: Runs network testing commands directly within host namespaces, executing iperf and ping
processes to generate voice, video, and file transfer
flows.
2) Dynamic Visualization: Renders the live network topology, reading telemetry from the controller to highlight
the active routing paths.
3) Fault Injection: Simulates physical link outages by disabling switch interfaces, utilizing a shared JSON file to
synchronize state changes.
The dashboard and controller communicate using structured
JSON payloads via a REST API. For instance, when a link
failure is simulated, the dashboard sends a POST request
containing the source switch, destination switch, and port
status:
{
"link_id": "S1-S2",
"status": "down",
"timestamp": 1717243912
}
The controller processes this payload to immediately update its
internal link state registry, initiating path recalculation without
waiting for discovery timeouts.
B. Control Plane
The Ryu SDN controller runs the core OpenFlow 1.3 control
logic. When a new flow arrives, the controller receives a
Packet-In message, extracts flow features (packet size and
packet rate), and classifies the stream using the serialized
Random Forest model. It then issues Flow-Mod messages to
install forwarding entries on the switches, dynamically routing
paths and bypassing failed links.
The control plane utilizes a single-table OpenFlow pipeline
(Table 0) with rule prioritization. At switch initialization,
a low-priority Table-Miss entry (priority 0) is installed to
forward all unmatched packets to the controller as PacketIn events. Once the flow is classified, the controller issues a
Flow-Mod message to install a high-priority forwarding rule
(priority 10) matched to the source and destination IP headers,
ensuring subsequent packets are forwarded at line rate without
controller intervention.
C. Data Plane
The data plane emulated in Mininet consists of four OpenFlow switches (S1 , S2 , S3 , S4 ) configured in a diamond backbone topology. Two hosts (H1 to H8 ) are connected to each
switch. This design ensures that traffic between hosts on
opposite switches (e.g., S1 to S4 ) has two disjoint paths: Path
A (S1 → S2 → S4 ) and Path B (S1 → S3 → S4 ). The core
links connecting the switches use virtual Ethernet (veth) pairs
with a capacity of 100 Mbps and a propagation delay of 1 ms.

IV. M ETHODOLOGY AND I MPLEMENTATION
A. Dataset and Machine Learning Training
Traffic classification utilizes a statistical model to eliminate processing delays associated with payload inspection. A
dataset of simulated flows was collected to represent three
types of applications: VoIP, Video Streaming, and File Transfer. The statistical parameters of this feature distribution are
summarized in Table I.
TABLE I
T RAFFIC F EATURE D ISTRIBUTION PARAMETERS
Traffic Class

Mean Size (Bytes)

Mean Rate (pps)

Samples

VoIP
Video
File Transfer

70
800
1450

50
350
800

500
500
500

A Random Forest Classifier with 100 decision trees was
trained using scikit-learn. Split decisions are evaluated using
the Gini impurity criterion to ensure low computational overhead during inline inference, minimizing classification latency
within the control loop.
For a node containing J classes, the Gini impurity IG (p) is
defined as:
J
X
IG (p) = 1 −
p2i
(2)
i=1

where pi is the probability of a packet belonging to class
i (J = 3 in this study). Additionally, the information gain
during a split
Pis measured using Shannon Entropy, defined as
H(X) = − pi log2 pi . By maximizing the Gini gain at each
node split, the algorithm builds individual decision trees that
isolate flow profiles based on packet size thresholds and packet
rate boundaries.
The information gain IG(T, a) for split parameter a on
training set T is computed based on entropy reductions.
This mathematical criteria ensures that features separating file
transfer flows (high packet size) from VoIP (small packet size)
are placed near the root of the decision trees, minimizing tree
depth and classification latency.
B. Path Cost Optimization Formulation
To optimize routing decisions, a path cost function CP
is defined for any available routing path P . The controller
evaluates the cost of all viable paths and selects the path that
minimizes this objective function:
UL
+ w2 · DL + w3 · PL
(3)
CL
where UL represents current bandwidth utilization, CL represents maximum link capacity (100 Mbps), DL is the total propagation and queuing delay, and P
PL is the packet loss rate. The
values w1 , w2 , w3 are weights ( wi = 1). For delay-sensitive
traffic classes (VoIP and Video), the weights are configured
to prioritize low latency (w2 = 0.7, w1 = 0.2, w3 = 0.1).
For throughput-intensive traffic classes (File Transfers), the
weights favor path capacity (w1 = 0.7, w2 = 0.1, w3 = 0.2).
CP = w1 ·

New Flow Packet arrives at Switch S1

S1 sends OpenFlow Packet-In to Ryu Controller

Ryu Controller extracts packet sizes and rates

Ryu Controller runs Random Forest Inference

Yes

Install Flow Rules for
Path A
(S1 → S2 → S4 )

No

Is VoIP
or Video?

Install Flow Rules for
Path B
(S1 → S3 → S4 )

Algorithm 1 Intelligent Load Balancing & Self-Healing Routing
Require: Source Ssrc , Destination Sdst , Traffic Ttype
Require: Link Status Database Lstatus
1: (P athA , P athB ) ← GetPaths(Ssrc , Sdst )
2: U pA ← CheckLinks(P athA , Lstatus )
3: U pB ← CheckLinks(P athB , Lstatus )
4: ChosenP ath ← NULL
5: if Ttype == ”FILE TRANSFER” then
6:
if U pB is TRUE then
7:
ChosenP ath ← P athB {Prefer Secondary Path}
8:
else if U pA is TRUE then
9:
ChosenP ath ← P athA {Fallback to Primary}
10:
end if
11: else
12:
if U pA is TRUE then
13:
ChosenP ath ← P athA {Prefer Primary Path}
14:
else if U pB is TRUE then
15:
ChosenP ath ← P athB {Fallback to Secondary}
16:
end if
17: end if
18: if ChosenP ath is NULL then
19:
Drop Packet {Network Partitioned}
20: else
21:
P ort ← GetOutputPort(CurrentN ode, ChosenP ath)
22:
InstallFlowRule(M atch, P ort, T imeout = 10)
23:
ForwardPacket(P ort)
24: end if

Fig. 3. Flow classification and path selection decision pipeline in the SDN
controller.

C. Intelligent Load Balancing Algorithm
When the controller receives a classification prediction from
the ML model, it executes the intelligent load balancing algorithm (Algorithm 1). To actively prevent network congestion,
the algorithm enforces a strict segregation policy. Delaysensitive multimedia traffic (classified as VoIP and Video)
requires the most direct, lowest-latency route. Therefore, it
is routed across the primary ”Upper” path of the diamond
topology (Path A). Conversely, throughput-intensive traffic,
such as File Transfers, is routed via the secondary path (Path
B) to maximize bandwidth utilization and avoid congestion on
the latency-sensitive path.
D. Protocol Anomalies and Flow Rule Expiration
During socket initialization, UDP video flows sporadically
produce ICMP Port Unreachable errors. The controller has
the potential for misclassifying these ICMP packets as VoIP,
which would cause routing conflicts. To mitigate this, the
controller inspects ICMP headers, selectively routing ICMP
Echo Requests (Type 8) while discarding Type 3 Destination
Unreachable error messages to prevent misclassification.
Flow rules are installed with an idle timeout of 10 seconds.
This timeout causes switches to periodically discard expired
entries. When a host switches traffic types, the old flow rules

expire, prompting the controller to reclassify and redirect the
subsequent packets.
E. System Overhead and Discussion
Deploying machine learning models within the SDN control
plane introduces additional processing overhead and latency.
To measure this, benchmarking was performed on the execution latency of the classification module.
On receiving a Packet-In message, the controller extracts
features, runs model inference, and pushes Flow-Mod messages. The inference latency of the Random Forest model is
approximately 1.2 ms on average in the experimental testbed
environment (Intel Core i7, 16 GB RAM), significantly below
CNNs or LSTM deep learning models that usually require 15
to 30 ms on standard CPU systems.
Additionally, the Random Forest model has a low memory
footprint, requiring less than 2 MB of disk space for the serialized classifier model and utilizing less than 10 MB of system
RAM when loaded. This minimizes resource consumption,
leaving sufficient CPU and memory resources for routing and
switches topology discovery events.
The selection of the flow rule idle timeout represents a
critical trade-off between control plane overhead and network
responsiveness. A shorter timeout (e.g., 2 seconds) minimizes stale entries in the switch flow table but increases
the frequency of Packet-In events, leading to elevated con-

troller CPU utilization. Conversely, a longer timeout (e.g.,
60 seconds) reduces controller overhead at the expense of
routing responsiveness. An idle timeout of 10 seconds was
empirically determined to balance computational efficiency
and adaptability.
Hardware memory constraints in physical switches present
another significant challenge. Modern OpenFlow switches
implement Ternary Content-Addressable Memory (TCAM) to
match packets at line speed. TCAM is expensive and powerhungry, limiting the number of entries in a switch flow table to
only thousands. The proposed framework minimizes flow rule
footprint in TCAM to prevent switch memory overflow under
high concurrent flow arrival rates by offloading routing logic
based on statistical flow profiles instead of explicit matching
against individual packets.
V. R ESULTS AND A NALYSIS
A. Traffic Classification Accuracy
The Random Forest model was evaluated using a 20% test
split. The classification model achieved an overall accuracy of
99.2%. Table II lists the class-specific performance.
TABLE II
T RAFFIC C LASSIFICATION M ETRICS
Traffic Class

Precision

Recall

F1-Score

Support

VoIP
Video
File Transfer

0.99
0.98
1.00

1.00
0.98
0.99

0.99
0.98
0.99

100
100
100

B. Traffic Separation Performance
To evaluate path load balancing, a stress test was executed
between H1 and H7 , initiating a 10 Mbps UDP video stream
and an unrestricted TCP file transfer simultaneously.
Under shortest-path routing, both streams were directed over
the S1 → S2 → S4 link. The TCP flow saturated the queues
on switch S1 , increasing jitter and causing a 14.2% packet loss
for the video stream. Under the proposed model, the controller
routed the video stream via Path A and offloaded the file
transfer to Path B. Table III compares these metrics.
As shown in Table III, the split-path routing model reduced
video packet loss to 0.1% and dropped jitter to 4 ms. Jitter J
is calculated dynamically following the RFC 1889 standard:
|(Ri − Si ) − (Ri−1 − Si−1 )| − Ji−1
16

Metric

Traditional SDN

AI-Driven SDN

Video Packet Loss
Video Avg Jitter
File Transfer Speed
Total Backbone Util.

14.2%
42 ms
48 Mbps
50% (Congested)

0.1%
4 ms
95 Mbps
100% (Balanced)

where Si is the sender timestamp of packet i, and Ri is the
receiver timestamp.
Offloading the file transfer to the secondary path also
allowed it to reach a speed of 95 Mbps, maximizing backbone
capacity.
C. Autonomous Rerouting Delay
To evaluate autonomous failure recovery, the link between
S1 and S2 was disabled during an active video streaming
session. The controller detected the state change via the synchronized JSON link registry, marking the path as unavailable.
The subsequent packet triggered a Packet-In event, prompting
the controller to calculate the alternative route and install
fallback forwarding rules along Path B (S1 → S3 → S4 ).
The end-to-end failover was completed in 18 ms, preventing
session disconnection or packet drops. The failover execution
latency breakdown is summarized in Table IV.
TABLE IV
FAILOVER R ECOVERY P ERFORMANCE T ELEMETRY

The metrics in Table II are calculated using standard
classification equations for Precision (T P/[T P + F P ]),
Recall (T P/[T P + F N ]), and F1-Score (2 · [Precision ·
Recall]/[Precision + Recall]), where T P , F P , and F N represent True Positives, False Positives, and False Negatives,
respectively.
Some overlap occurred between high-rate VoIP and lowrate video streams due to similar packet intervals. However,
because the system routes both categories over Path A, this
minor classification error does not degrade traffic performance.

Ji = Ji−1 +

TABLE III
Q O S M ETRICS DURING C ONCURRENT T RAFFIC S IMULATION

(4)

Failover Stage

Average Latency (ms)

Contribution (%)

Link Outage Detection
Flow Mod Rule Installation

12.5 ms
5.7 ms

68.7%
31.3%

Total Traffic Recovery

18.2 ms

100.0%

VI. C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE S COPE
An SDN controller approach combining the Random Forest
classification algorithm with application-scheduled path provisioning and link failure recovery has been proposed. The
architecture was evaluated on a 4-switch diamond topology,
automatically classifying voice and video vs data flows based
on statistical header features - thus avoiding the delay of
deep packet analysis. Dynamic traffic steering improves the
throughput of delay-sensitive multimedia streams and reduces
jitter using the cost optimization path selection algorithm. The
self-healing components recover from physical link failures in
18 ms.
Future work will extend this framework to larger topologies
like Fat-Tree or leaf-spine. Also, incorporating reinforcement
learning models will enable the controller to learn real-time
link utilization metrics in an automatic and online fashion.
R EFERENCES
[1] S. Adil and A. Alfoudi, “Traffic dataclassification in SDN network based
on machine learning algorithms,” Wasit Journal for Pure Sciences, vol.
3, pp. 161–171, 2024, doi: 10.31185/wjps.375.

[2] R. H. Serag, M. S. Abdalzaher, H. A. E. A. Elsayed, et al., “Software
Defined Network Traffic Classification for QoS Optimization Using
Machine Learning,” Journal of Network and Systems Management, vol.
33, p. 41, 2025, doi: 10.1007/s10922-025-09911-6.
[3] M. Nagpal, K. Desai, and K. Nandan, “Optimized Traffic Classification
System for Software-Defined Networking Using a Deep Learning-Based
Approach,” International Journal of Intelligent Systems and Applications
in Engineering, vol. 12, no. 21s, pp. 1429–1434, 2024.
[4] R. J. Maulana and G. P. Kusuma, “Malware Classification Based on
System Call Sequences Using Deep Learning,” Advances in Science,
Technology and Engineering Systems Journal, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 207–
216, 2020, doi: 10.25046/aj050426.
[5] M. Rostami and S. Goli-Bidgoli, “An Overview of QoS-aware Load
Balancing Techniques in SDN-based IoT Networks,” Journal of Cloud
Computing, vol. 13, p. 89, 2024, doi: 10.1186/s13677-024-00651-7.
[6] A. H. Alhilali and A. Montazerolghaem, “Artificial Intelligence Based
Load Balancing in SDN: A Comprehensive Survey,” Internet of Things,
vol. 22, p. 100814, 2023, doi: 10.1016/j.iot.2023.100814.
[7] Q. Du, X. Cui, H. Tang, and X. Chen, “Review of Load Balancing Mechanisms in SDN-Based Data Centers,” Journal of Computer and Communications, vol. 12, pp. 49–66, 2024, doi: 10.4236/jcc.2024.121004.
[8] B. Ananth, “Efficient Hybrid Load Balancer for Software Defined
Networks Using OpenFlow Accuracy Prediction,” International Journal
of Intelligent Systems and Applications in Engineering, vol. 12, no. 21s,
pp. 1772–1778, 2024.
[9] G. Srinivasan, G. S. Sekhar, and P. Suresh, “Reliable Load Balanced
Routing Policy Using Bayesian Optimization for SDN-IoT Applications,” International Journal of Intelligent Systems and Applications in
Engineering, vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 445–453, 2024.
[10] D. M. Casas-Velasco, O. M. Caicedo Rendon, and N. L. S. da Fonseca,
“DRSIR: A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach for Routing in
Software-Defined Networking,” IEEE Transactions on Network and
Service Management, 2021, doi: 10.1109/TNSM.2021.3132491.
[11] S. Faezi and A. Shirmarz, “A Comprehensive Survey on Machine
Learning Using in Software Defined Networks (SDN),” Human-Centric
Intelligent Systems, vol. 3, pp. 312–343, 2023, doi: 10.1007/s44230-02300025-3.
[12] M. D. Tache, O. Păscuţoiu, and E. Borcoci, “Optimization Algorithms
in SDN: Routing, Load Balancing, and Delay Optimization,” Applied
Sciences, vol. 14, no. 14, p. 5967, 2024, doi: 10.3390/app14145967.
[13] G. Wassie, J. Ding, and Y. Wondie, “Traffic Prediction in SDN for
Explainable QoS Using Deep Learning Approach,” Scientific Reports,
vol. 13, p. 20607, 2023, doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-46471-8.
[14] R. Farahi, “A Comprehensive Overview of Load Balancing Methods in
Software-Defined Networks,” Discover Internet of Things, vol. 5, p. 6,
2025, doi: 10.1007/s43926-025-00098-5.
[15] V. S. Elagin, “Traffic Classification Model in Software-Defined Networks with Artificial Intelligence Elements,” Proceedings of Telecommunication Universities, vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 66–78, 2023, doi: 10.31854/1813324X-2023-9-5-66-78.
[16] J. S. Dmitrieva, D. V. Okuneva, and V. S. Elagin, “Analyzing Traffic
Identification Methods for Resource Management in SDN,” Proceedings
of Telecommunication Universities, vol. 9, no. 6, pp. 42–57, 2023, doi:
10.31854/1813-324X-2023-9-6-42-57.
[17] S. Nyaramneni, T. Potluri, and J. Somavarapu, “Advanced Ensemble
Machine Learning Models to Predict SDN Traffic,” Procedia Computer
Science, vol. 230, pp. 417–426, 2023, doi: 10.1016/j.procs.2023.12.097.
[18] S. Samaan and H. A. Jeiad, “Architecting a Machine Learning Pipeline
for Online Traffic Classification in Software Defined Networking Using
Spark,” IAES International Journal of Artificial Intelligence, vol. 12, no.
2, pp. 861–873, 2023, doi: 10.11591/ijai.v12.i2.pp861-873.
[19] P. Sun, Z. Guo, J. Lan, et al., “ScaleDRL: A Scalable Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach for Traffic Engineering in SDN with
Pinning Control,” Computer Networks, vol. 190, p. 107891, 2021, doi:
10.1016/j.comnet.2021.107891.
[20] E. Benedetto, I. Filippini, J. Elias, F. Martignon, and Y. Shen, “Semidistributed Traffic Engineering for Elastic Flows in Software Defined
Networks,” in Proc. IEEE International Conference on Communications
(ICC), 2022, doi: 10.1109/ICC45855.2022.9838597.

